Tastes Better From Scratch

Everything tastes better homemade!

-   About
-   Custom Meal Plan
-   Recipes

You are here: Home

/ Birthday

/ Hershey’s “perfectly chocolate” Chocolate Cake



HERSHEY’S “PERFECTLY CHOCOLATE” CHOCOLATE CAKE


Jump to Recipe Print Recipe

Save to Meal Plan

HERSHEY’S “PERFECTLY CHOCOLATE” CHOCOLATE CAKE with 5 ingredient
chocolate frosting is our favorite homemade chocolate cake recipe! Extra
moist, with a perfect rich chocolate flavor and tender, smooth crumb.

[A slice of Hershey's perfectly chocolate chocolate cake, with chocolate
frosting, on a white plate with a chocolate cake in the background.][A
slice of Hershey's perfectly chocolate chocolate cake, with chocolate
frosting, on a white plate with a chocolate cake in the background.]

Chocolate Cake

This quick and easy chocolate cake recipe has become my all-time
favorite over the years, and it’s the base recipe for many of my other
favorite chocolate cake recipes.

It’s also one of the very FIRST recipes I ever shared here, way back in
2010! I think I’ve made hundreds of cakes since then, and this is still
my favorite recipe. Thank you Hershey’s!

I can confidently say that it’s everything you’d hope for from a
homemade chocolate cake, including incredibly moist and tender, with a
fantastic homemade chocolate frosting.

And, did I mention how _easy_ it is to make? Let’s me show you:

How to make chocolate cake:

Start by mixing the dry and wet ingredients in separate bowls.

[Process photos for making a chocolate cake including mixing the dry
ingredients and wet ingredients in separate mixing bowls.][Process
photos for making a chocolate cake including mixing the dry ingredients
and wet ingredients in separate mixing bowls.]

Add the wet/buttermilk mixture to the dry flour mixture and mix the
batter until well combined. Pour boiling water into the batter and stir
until smooth. The batter will be very thin!

Pour the batter into your cake pans and bake the cakes on the middle
rack of the oven.

[boiling water added to chocolate cake batter, next to another photo of
two round cake pans filled with the batter.][boiling water added to
chocolate cake batter, next to another photo of two round cake pans
filled with the batter.]

How to make ahead and store the cake and frosting:

The cakes and the chocolate frosting can both be made ahead of time.
Allow the cakes to cool completely, and then wrap them really well in
plastic wrap and stick each layer in a ziplock freezer bag. Freeze for
up to one month. I like to frost the cakes when they are frozen because
they’re easier to frost.

[A round chocolate cake layer on a white plate with chocolate frosting
being spread on top, next to another photo of the cake with a second
round cake layer placed on top.][A round chocolate cake layer on a white
plate with chocolate frosting being spread on top, next to another photo
of the cake with a second round cake layer placed on top.]

The homemade chocolate frosting will keep well in an air-tight container
in the fridge for up to two weeks, or in the freezer for up to three
months.  Remove the frosting from the fridge about an hour before you’re
ready to frost your cake to allow it to come to room temperature.

[A two layer chocolate cake with chocolate frosting.][A two layer
chocolate cake with chocolate frosting.]

TIPS FOR PERFECT CHOCOLATE CAKE:

Use room temperature ingredients, particularly eggs.

Eggs at room temperature (as opposed to cold from the fridge) are
fluffier and will emulsify in the batter better, which will also help
the cake rise properly. A trick for bringing eggs to room temperature
quickly is to run hot water over them for one minute, or let them sit in
a bowl of warm water for 5 minutes.

Use buttermilk (or easily make your own):

The original Hershey’s recipe does not use buttermilk, but buttermilk is
a great ingredient to make cakes like this extra moist. If you don’t
have buttermilk, use a simple trick of mixing 1 teaspoon of lemon juice
or vinegar into 1 cup of milk. Allow the mixture to sit for a few
minutes and you’ll notice it curdle slightly, to form buttermilk.

Line the bottom of your cake pan, before adding the batter.

I learned early on to never skip the step of lining the bottom of my
cake pans with parchment or wax paper. Then you never have to stress
about the cake sticking to the bottom of the pan. I also spray the
bottom of the paper and the sides of the pan lightly with cooking spray.

[A slice of Hershey's perfectly chocolate chocolate cake on a white
plate with the whole cake in the background.][A slice of Hershey's
perfectly chocolate chocolate cake on a white plate with the whole cake
in the background.]

 

Consider trying these popular desserts:

-   German Chocolate Cake
-   Mississippi Mud Brownies
-   Snickerdoodles Bars
-   Perfect Chocolate Chip Cookies
-   Tres Leches Cake

 

You can also FOLLOW ME on FACEBOOK, TWITTER, INSTAGRAM and PINTEREST for
more great recipes!

4.82 from 90 votes

[A slice of Hershey's perfectly chocolate chocolate cake, with chocolate
frosting, on a white plate with a chocolate cake in the background.]

[A slice of Hershey's perfectly chocolate chocolate cake, with chocolate
frosting, on a white plate with a chocolate cake in the background.]

Hershey's "perfectly chocolate" Chocolate Cake

Print Recipe

Save to Meal Plan

Prep Time

10 mins

Cook Time

30 mins

Total Time

40 mins

 

Hershey's "perfectly chocolate" chocolate cake with 5 ingredient
chocolate frosting is our favorite homemade chocolate cake recipe.  

Course: Dessert

Cuisine: American

Keyword: chocolate cake from scratch, chocolate cake recipe

Unit: cup, large, teaspoon

Servings: 16

Calories: 383 kcal

Author: Lauren Allen

Ingredients

For the Chocolate Cake

-   2 cups granulated sugar
-   1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
-   3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
-   1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
-   1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
-   1 teaspoon salt
-   2 large eggs
-   1 cup buttermilk
-   1/2 cup oil (vegetable or canola oil)
-   2 teaspoons vanilla extract
-   1 cup boiling water

For the Chocolate Frosting

-   1/2 cup butter (*see note)
-   2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
-   3 cups powdered sugar
-   1/3 cup milk
-   1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Instructions

1.  Heat oven to 350°F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round baking pans.

2.  Stir together sugar, flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda and
    salt in large bowl. 

3.  Add eggs, milk, oil and vanilla; beat on medium speed of mixer 2
    minutes. 

4.  Stir in boiling water (batter will be thin). Pour batter into
    prepared pans.

5.  Bake 30 to 35 minutes

For a 9x13'' One Layer Cake

1.  Grease 9x13'' pan with non-stick cooking spray. Pour batter into
    prepared pan. Bake at 350 degrees F. for 35 to 40 minutes. Cool
    completely. Frost.

For Cupcakes:

1.  Line cupcake pan with paper liners and fill 2/3 full with batter.
    Bake cupcakes for 22 to 25 minutes. Cool completely completely
    before frosting. Makes 24-30 cupcakes

For the Chocolate Frosting:

1.  Combine butter and cocoa powder.

2.  Add powdered sugar, milk, and vanilla extract.

3.  You might also love my German Chocolate Cake!

Recipe Video

Recipe Notes

*For a richer flavored chocolate frosting, try melting the butter before
stirring in the cocoa powder

*Read my tips for making perfect chocolate cake, above in the post. 

 

_*I originally shared this recipe June 2010. Updated April 2018._

 

HAVE YOU TRIED THIS RECIPE?!

RATE AND COMMENT BELOW! I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR YOUR EXPERIENCE.

 

Recipe adapted from Hershey’s. 

[Hershey's ]

[Hershey's ]

Pin

Share

Tweet

Email

+1

Birthday· Cakes/Cupcakes· Dessert
271 Comments

« Baked Potato Salad

Instant Pot Mexican Rice »

Comments

1.  Tom Everett says

    January 25, 2019 at 5:52 pm

    This cake receipe is amazing. I added grated Hersey bar to mix and
    sprinkled chopped Reese’s on the icing. Imagination is the key to
    cooking

    Chef T.

    Reply

2.  Kristina says

    January 26, 2019 at 8:32 pm

    This is my go to chocolate cake recipe! Everyone loves it! I’m
    wondering though if I can add a cup of coffee instead of boiling
    water to add a coffee flavor… or even a tablespoon of grounded up
    coffee to the mixture …. hmmmm… anyone experience with this???

    Reply

    -   Lauren Allen says

        January 27, 2019 at 12:26 pm

        Yes, you can replace the boiling water with hot coffee! Enjoy!

        Reply

3.  Nakul says

    January 27, 2019 at 4:22 pm

    Thank you, Lauren! An easy to follow recipe and the taste is
    awesome! I’ve never baked anything in my life. This was the first
    time and I was baking for my wife’s birthday. Turned out perfect!

    Reply

4.  Natalie Lamar says

    January 27, 2019 at 4:41 pm

    This recipe is great! Highly recommend it. Easy to put together with
    on hand ingredients ( I made soured milk instead of using
    buttermilk) and that frosting recipe is now a staple in my recipe
    box!

    Reply

5.  Rose says

    January 27, 2019 at 9:31 pm

    Awesome recipe! I made it with gluten free flour and it was perfect!
    Very rich and delicious!!

    Reply

6.  Tracy says

    January 28, 2019 at 7:54 am

    I loved the cake but not the frosting

    Reply

7.  Daisy Ford says

    January 28, 2019 at 12:44 pm

    Easy everyone loved it

    Reply

8.  Jill says

    January 28, 2019 at 7:37 pm

    I love this recipe and have made it several times following the
    recipe to a tee. Only once was it perfect and other times it falls
    in the center. Please give me some advice so I can perfect this
    cake.

    Reply

    -   Lauren Allen says

        January 28, 2019 at 8:36 pm

        Hi Jill, there are so many factors that could cause that–here’s
        a great resource that should help:
        https://delishably.com/desserts/Baking-Tips-Why-a-Cake-Sinks-in-the-Middle-and-How-to-Stop-It

        Reply

    -   Jeannie says

        February 5, 2019 at 11:58 am

        Add 1/4 cup more flour and that should work, unless you live
        above 3500 feet from sea level.

        Reply

9.  Cheyanne says

    January 29, 2019 at 4:53 pm

    So, I used regular milk instead of buttermilk because I didn’t have
    it.. hopefully it still turns out good..

    Reply

10. Dolores says

    January 30, 2019 at 4:36 pm

    How can i make half of this recipe

    Reply

    -   Mallory Stewart says

        February 2, 2019 at 1:50 pm

        Half the ingredients

        Reply

    -   Traci Chae says

        February 3, 2019 at 8:25 am

        Half the ingredients and use an 8×8 or 9×9 pan

        Reply

11. Todd from New Hampshire says

    February 1, 2019 at 1:39 pm

    My go to recipe. Instead of the eggs I substituted it for onions..
    yes onions. Joking. I made it as described-no substitution or
    alteration needed. Thank you.

    Reply

12. Samantha says

    February 2, 2019 at 9:46 am

    WHERE ARE THE INGREDIENTS!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?

    Reply

    -   Lauren Allen says

        February 2, 2019 at 4:16 pm

        If you scroll through the post or click “jump to recipe” at the
        beginning of the post you should find the recipe card.

        Reply

13. Diana says

    February 2, 2019 at 7:30 pm

    My cake came out a bit dry. I let it cook for 35 mins. I followed
    the recipe as instructed, including having the ingredients at room
    temperature. What can I do to help it be more moist? P.S. the flavor
    is amazing, taste very chocolatey. Thanks f9r the information 🙂

    Reply

    -   Lauren Allen says

        February 3, 2019 at 5:57 pm

        Hi Diana, the most common reason for this would be too much
        flour. When you measure the flour be sure to gently spoon the
        flour into the cup and then level it off with a knife. You want
        to make sure there isn’t too much flour packed into the
        measuring cup. Too little of liquids could also cause dryness,
        so make sure you’re measuring liquids using a liquid measuring
        cup. Hope those tips help for next time!

        Reply

« Older Comments

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Recipe Rating

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

[]

[]

Welcome! I’m Lauren, a mom of 3 and lover of good food. Here you’ll find
easy recipes and weeknight meal ideas made with real ingredients, with
step-by-step photos and videos. Read More

-   Facebook
-   Instagram
-   Pinterest
-   Twitter
-   YouTube

Never Miss a Recipe!

Email address:

Leave this field empty if you're human:

Recipe Key

-   Appetizers
-   Desserts
-   Main Dish
-   Instant Pot
-   Pasta
-   Salads
-   Side Dishes
-   Snacks

-   Facebook
-   Instagram
-   Pinterest
-   Twitter
-   YouTube

Copyright © 2010-2019 | Contact Me | Privacy Policy



TASTES BETTER FROM SCRATCH


We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our
website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are
happy with it.OkPrivacy policy
